# Sudoku Generator
 
This program will generate random sudoku puzzles. It uses two functions in conjunction.

randomiseNumberOrder will create a random order of the 9 digits for each cell in the sudoku grid. This is the order these numbers will be tried.

generateCompletedGrid uses a recursive approach introduced in section 5.2 of the following paper: https://math.swansea.ac.uk/staff/jhg/papers/MCM2008-Ruth-Nick-Louise.pdf

At each step, we try and fill the given cell in the grid with the numbers in generated by randomiseNumberOrder, and then test whether this number is valid according to the sudoku rules. If it is valid, we move on to the next cell. If not, we try the next number. If we cannot fill the cell with any number, then we know one of the previous numbers has created an invalid state, and so we step back to the previous cell and try the next number for the previous cell. This continues recursively until all cells are filled.

Right now there is no way to create actual *puzzles*, this only creates completed grids. Eventually this program will be able to generate
 valid (that is, with a unique solution) sudoku puzzles from these completed grids, and the aim is to also be able to classify these puzzles in difficulty as well as generate puzzles of a given difficulty. I intend to try different metrics of difficulty based on both the method described in the above paper, and the method described in https://www.researchgate.net/publication/232628110_Rating_and_Generating_Sudoku_Puzzles
